"This is a free minix-like kernel for i386(+) based AT-machines," began the Linux version 0.01 release notes in September of 1991 for the first release of the Linux kernel. "As the version number (0.01) suggests this is not a mature product. Currently only a subset of AT-hardware is supported (hard-disk, screen, keyboard and serial lines), and some of the system calls are not yet fully implemented (notably mount/umount aren't even implemented)." Booting the original 0.01 Linux kernel required bootstrapping it with minix, and the keyboard driver was written in assembly and hard-wired for a Finnish keyboard. The listed features were mostly presented as a comparison to minix and included, efficiently using the 386 chip rather than the older 8088, use of system calls rather than message passing, a fully multithreaded FS, minimal task switching, and visible interrupts. Linus Torvalds noted, "the guiding line when implementing linux was: get it working fast. I wanted the kernel simple, yet powerful enough to run most unix software." In a section titled "Apologies :)" he noted:

"This isn't yet the 'mother of all operating systems', and anyone who hoped for that will have to wait for the
first real release (1.0), and even then you might not want to change from minix. This is a source release for
those that are interested in seeing what linux looks like, and it's not really supported yet."

Linus had originally intended to call the new kernel "Freax". According to Wikipedia, the name Linux was actually invented by Ari Lemmke who maintained the ftp.funet.fi FTP server from which the kernel was originally distributed.

The initial post that Linus made about Linux was to the comp.os.minix Usenet group titled, "What would you like to see most in minix". It began:

"I'm doing a (free) operating system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like gnu) for 386(486) AT clones.
This has been brewing since april, and is starting to get ready. I'd like any feedback on things people like/dislike
in minix, as my OS resembles it somewhat (same physical layout of the file-system (due to practical reasons) among
other things)."

Indeed, Linux 1.0 was released on March 13th, 1994 supporting only the 32-bit i386 architecture. However, by the release of Linux 1.2 on March 7th, 1995 it had already been ported to 32-bit MIPS, 32-bit SPARC, and the 64-bit Alpha. By the release of Linux 2.0 on June 9th, 1996 support had also been added for the 32-bit m68k and 32-bit PowerPC architectures. And jumping forward to the Linux 2.6 kernel, first released in 2004, it has been and continues to be ported to numerous additional architectures.

The whole text can be found here: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~awb/linux.history.html
